OSDOCS-11139: updates Updating for MicroShift 4.17 (#80816)
openshift/openshift-docs: microshift_updating/microshift-update-options.adoc

[id="microshift-update-options-manual-rpm-updates_{context}"]
=== Manual RPM updates

> You can update {microshift-short} manually on a non-OSTree system such as {op-system-base-full} by downloading and updating the RPMs.

Reviewer: Is the `downloading the RPMs` a catchall phrase ? It is not necessarily required as long as you are properly pointing to the correct repo. You can run a simple dnf upgrade <microshift-version> and the package will be upgraded

Author: No, that's a carryover from 4.12, which was dev preview so there was no subscription repo yet. Good catch, TY!

> * To complete this update type, use the subscription manager to access the repository containing the new RPMs.

Reviewer: This is a minor nit, but you are using subscription manager to enable the repository, not really accessing the repository.

> * To complete this update type, use the subscription manager to enable the repository containing the new RPMs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To complete this update type, use the subscription manager to enable the repository that contains the new RPMs.
```

> * Ensuring system health and completing additional system backups are manual processes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Use manual processes to ensure system health and complete additional system backups.
```

Better parallelism with the surrounding points.

* To begin a manual RPM update, use the procedures in the following documentation:

* xref:../microshift_updating/microshift-update-rpms-manually.adoc#microshift-update-rpms-manually[About updating MicroShift RPMs manually]

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Ensure that your version of {op-system} is compatible with the version of {microshift-short} you are updating to, especially if you are updating {microshift-short} across two minor versions.

Author: Noted and upgraded to a WARNING, which is the data-loss level of admonition in the docs.

> Keeping versions in a supported configuration of {op-system-bundle} can require updating {microshift-short} and {op-system} at the same time. Ensure that your version of {op-system} is compatible with the version of {microshift-short} you are updating to, especially if you are updating {microshift-short} across two minor versions. Otherwise, you can create an unsupported configuration and break your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keeping versions in a supported configuration of {op-system-bundle} can require updating {microshift-short} and {op-system} at the same time. Ensure that your version of {op-system} is compatible with the version of {microshift-short} that you want to update, especially if you are updating {microshift-short} across two minor versions. Otherwise, you can create an unsupported configuration that breaks your cluster.
```

Author: Hmm, what I really mean here is "...you can create an unsupported configuration, break your cluster, or both."

Good note, thanks!

[id="microshift-update-options-simultaneous-microshift-rhel-updates_{context}"]
== Simultaneous {microshift-short} and operating system updates
You can update {op-system-ostree} or {op-system} and update {microshift-short} at the same time, on the condition that the versions are compatible.

* Check for compatibility before beginning an update.
* First use the {op-system-ostree} and {op-system} documentation specific to your update path to plan and update the operating system.

> * Then use the {microshift-short} update type specific to your update path.

Reviewer: There could be another bullet below this about enabling the correct MicroShift repository before starting the simultaneous upgrade. If you do not enable, you'll end up with with an upgraded OS, but not MicroShift. Yesterday, I went from a RHEL 9.2 system running MicroShift 4.15 to a RHEL 9.4 system running MicroShift 4.15 (unsupported).

[id="microshift-update-options-simultaneous-microshift-rhel-updates_{context}"]
== Simultaneous {microshift-short} and operating system updates
You can update {op-system-ostree} or {op-system} and update {microshift-short} at the same time, on the condition that the versions are compatible.

> * Check for compatibility before beginning an update.

Reviewer 2: Maybe number these if the order is important?

Author: I feel like I tried that before and got told that made it a procedure. But really this is the order of the workflow steps. Will number them now. TY!

* First use the {op-system-ostree} and {op-system} documentation specific to your update path to plan and update the operating system.
* Enable the correct {microshift-short} repository to ensure alignment between your {op-system} and {microshift-short} versions.

> * Then use the {microshift-short} update type specific to your update path.

Reviewer 2: Starting a sentence with an adverb might not be everyone's cup of tea. I think the numbering of the steps can remove the "First" and "Then" terms.

![Uploading Screenshot from 2024-08-28 16-50-39.png…]()

Author: Yeah, the numerals made those adverbs uneccessary.
